Add Kerberos App (Enterprise) (#1128)
owncloud/docs-server: modules/admin_manual/pages/enterprise/authentication/kerberos.adoc

= Kerberos
:toc: right
:description: Kerberos is an authentication protocol and authenticates two hosts using the shared secret authentication technique. The main goal of Kerberos is to enable application authentication without the need to transmit user passwords.

== Introduction

> {description} It will share a secret among the two hosts that only them and Key Distribution Center (KDC) knows. Kerberos builds a secure communication link between two trusted hosts across an untrusted network like the Internet using tickets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{description} It will share a secret among the two hosts that only they and the Key Distribution Center (KDC) know. Kerberos builds a secure communication link between two trusted hosts across an untrusted network like the Internet, using tickets.
```

> Using the Kerberos app, you can reuse the authentication ticket generated from the users Windows domain login for ownCloud and access fileserver ressources via ownCloud without re-authentication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the Kerberos app, you can reuse the authentication ticket generated from a user's Windows domain login for ownCloud and access file server resources via ownCloud without re-authentication.
```

== General Information

> When using the Kerberos app, the Windows login session from the user is taken to login in ownCloud. This is very convenient, as the user does not need to re-authenitcate for using ownCloud as he already has authenticated to his Domain. In addition by using the Kerberos ticket, the user can use file ressoures via the xref:enterprise/external_storage/windows-network-drive_configuration.adoc[Windows Network Drive (WND)] app also without the need to re-authenticate. This generates a seamless user experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using the Kerberos app, the Windows login session from the user is taken to log in to ownCloud. This is very convenient, as the user does not need to re-authenticate for using ownCloud as he already has authenticated to his Domain. In addition by using the Kerberos ticket, the user can use file resoures via the xref:enterprise/external_storage/windows-network-drive_configuration.adoc[Windows Network Drive (WND)] app also without the need to re-authenticate. This generates a seamless user experience.
```

=== Kerberos Benefits

This is a brief list of Kerberos benefits:

* *Secure* +
Kerberos never transmits passwords over the network.

* *Single-Sign-On* +
Kerberos only requires the user to type their password once when first authenticating the client.

> * *Trusted third-party* +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Trusted Third Party* +
```

Kerberos uses a centralized authentication server known as the Key Distribution Center (KDC) that all other devices in the network trust by default. This outsourcing ensures that sensitive information is not stored on a local machine.

> * *Mutual authentication* +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Mutual Authentication* +
```

> In Kerberos, both ends of communication must be authenticated before the communication is permitted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Kerberos, both ends of communication must be authenticated before communication is permitted.
```

> * *Delegated authentication* +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Delegated Authentication* +
```

The Kerberos V5 protocol implemented in Active Directory Domain Services is based on standards set forth by the IETF. It allows Kerberos implementations in Active Directory to interoperate with other networks in which Kerberos V5 is used for authentication.

* *Microsoft Azure AD Kerberos* is a new authentication capability of Azure AD that allows using the Kerberos authentication protocol to authenticate against Azure AD.

=== Kerberos Core Components

* *Kerberos Realm* +
A logical network, similar to a domain, over which a Kerberos authentication server has the authority to authenticate a user, host or service.

* *Key Distribution Centre (KDC)* +
Contains the Authentication Server (AS) and the Ticket Granting Service (TGS). Its main function is to be a mediator between these two, relaying messages from the AS, grants a ticket-granting ticket (TGT), then passing that to be encrypted by the TGS. The KDC for a domain is located on a domain controller.

* *Authentication Server (AS)* +
A client authenticates themselves to the AS using a username and password login. The AS then forwards the username to the KDC that in turn grants a TGT.

* *Ticket Granting Service (TGS)* +

> when a client wants to access a service, they must present their TGT to the TGS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a client wants to access a service, they must present their TGT to the TGS.
```

* *Service Principal Name (SPN)* +
An identifier given to a service instance to associate a service instance with a domain service account.

> === What are Kerberos Tickets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== What are Kerberos Tickets?
```

The main structures handled by Kerberos are the tickets. These tickets are delivered to the users in order to be used by them to perform several actions in the Kerberos realm. There are 2 types:

> * The *TGS (Ticket Granting Service)* is the ticket which user can use to authenticate against a service. It is encrypted with the service key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The *TGS (Ticket Granting Service)* is the ticket which the user can use to authenticate against a service. It is encrypted with the service key.
```

* The *TGT (Ticket Granting Ticket)* is granted by the KDC after the client is successfully authenticated. It is presented to the KDC to request for TGSs and is encrypted with the KDC key.

> === Comparison Domain Authentication versus LDAP

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Comparison Domain Authentication Versus LDAP
```

> * When a user authenticates to his desktop, the Windows OS sends his credential to a Domain Controller which is also a Kerberos Distribution Center (KDC). The user gets a ticket which can be used to authenticate to other network services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* When users authenticate themselves to their desktop, the Windows OS sends their credentials to a Domain Controller which is also a Kerberos Distribution Center (KDC). The users get a ticket which can be used to authenticate to other network services.
```

* When accessing an LDAP server using Kerberos authentication, the user binds to LDAP using a Kerberos ticket rather than sending a password. The LDAP server then validates the ticket and verifies that it belongs to the user trying to bind.

* LDAP is not specific to Active Directory. Microsoft implemented LDAP as part of Active Directory capabilities to allow AD DS to work with LDAP-based applications. Kerberos is more secure than LDAP, but they are often used together in Active Directory. When you view objects in Active Directory Users and Computers (ADUC), you are authenticated with Kerberos, and then LDAP is used to query the Active Directory database efficiently and effectively.

=== Overview Image

The following image gives a brief overview about the main components and processes

image::enterprise/authentication/kerberos/kerberos-principle.svg[Kerberos process Overview, width=450]

== Windows Domain Login

> When a user logs in with his client into the domain, the client has recieved the necessary Kerberos ticket, see image above, which is also available to browsers. Now, when the user opens a browser and tries to login in ownCloud with the Kerberos app enabled, he will see the following screen:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When users log in to the domain, the client has received the necessary Kerberos ticket, see image above, which is also available to browsers. Now, when users open a browser and try to log in to ownCloud with the Kerberos app enabled, they will see the following screen:
```

image::enterprise/authentication/kerberos/kerberos-login-screenshot.png[Alternative Windows Domain Login, width=300]

> Compared to a standard login using a user and password, the user clicks on the btn:[Windows Domain Login] button. With this button, the browser takes the Kerberos ticket from the client and uses it for the ownCloud login process. Kerberos tickets are further used to access file ressources via the xref:enterprise/external_storage/windows-network-drive_configuration.adoc[Windows Network Drive (WND)] app without the need of a user re-authentication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Compared to a standard login using a user name and password, the user clicks on the btn:[Windows Domain Login] button. With this button, the browser takes the Kerberos ticket from the client and uses it for the ownCloud login process. Kerberos tickets are further used to access file resources via the xref:enterprise/external_storage/windows-network-drive_configuration.adoc[Windows Network Drive (WND)] app without the need of a user authenticating again.
```
